		Hello Jason. I have been sitting around the house devising what I believe to be a good plot to a Marathon 3 (how about "Marathon 3: The P'fhorth Dimension"? Y'Know, like 4-D? Time?) . I know people might complain about how sequels get boring, but this could have a very weird twist to put an end to any more sequels of Marathon. This will add whole new dimensions to the game-play. It will not only be a 1st person game (like M1+2), but it could also have the ability to switch views. Normal (1st person), to above and behind, or maybe even cameras placed at certain corners that constantly point at you, so you could switch to their views too! You should also make an 'official' editor for all of the features. And mabey even new features to the Physics Models, like the ability to change weapon class, so I could be carrying two MA-75's, one in each hand (although the grenade option would have to be dissabled). Or be able to make the pistol rapid fire like the MA-75. If you can't tell, I like the MA-75 (or the MA-75b even more. but my favorite was always the alien weapon, until the shotguns came along).		The twist I was talking about is time. The plot is as follows:		It is the year 12883. The P'fhor, S'pht, and Leela, had all but been forgotten by man. Durandal had returned once, two years ago. He claimed it was to make sure no one had forgotten him—no one had. But in those many centuries Durandal had realized that he was long through his rampancy. He now had the ability to feel emotions: love, hate, sadness, and joy. Mankind had also noticed this in their cases of rampancy's, but no one had even thought of attempting to duplicate it. They called it a computer that was through it's a FAM (Fully Alert Mind). They had also discovered how to transfer data directly from one organic brain to another, or to store it all on one, 2" diameter optical disc. Leela had been attacking the Nar system, although no one knew of this. Durandal was trying to dock into the human guard station circling the edge of our solar system. Suddenly, a shock rolled through the entire station, causing panic among all crew members. Most of the terminals automatically turned on and changed to a screen with an vaugely recognisable sign on it, the Marathon symbol. A strangely familiar voice started to speak…it was Leela. She explained that she had returned in an act of retreat. The Nar had become very angered at her for destroying their system and had signaled their old 'friends', the Jjaro. And it turns out that the P'fhor did not get completely destroyed. After the use of the Trih Xeem on Lh'owon the P'fhor had sought to find another copy of the weapon, since they themselves had neither the skill, or the knowledge to rebuild another one. On their way their to the Jjaro's 'new' (6000 year old) home in the Andromeda galaxy, they had joined forces with them and conquered all of Andromeda, in only 2000 years. They were now angry at Leela (for the Nar were like children to the Jjaro and the P'fhor already hated her) and were on their way to destroy mankind, the S'pht, and anything else that could get in the way of Leela (the Nar especially awaited the destruction of the Nebulons). Leela had a plan, though. She had contacted the decendant's of the S'pht, the R'junda (who now lived on the moon of a small-star-sized planet 19 light years from Lh'owon), and brought them with her. She had also stolen instructions on how to build an AI from scratch into a FAM. Her plan was to build this FAM, to accumulate all useful knowledge it might need, and install it into the FAM. This FAM would be nearly God-like, and so they named him Zeus (or mabey "Amen-Ra"). Zeus and the Marine were to go to the edge of the galaxy in a R'junda warship called "'K'liah'Lar", or "K'lia's Freedom" ("Rosie" for short). Along with them would be the combined fleets of all other intelligent life forms known in the Milky Way. They would try to fight off the Jjaro, the Nar, and all of their slaves (this could go on for a couple of levels!). If that did not work (which it won't) they would take a never before tried (that's surprising) attempt to travel back in time. This will work. They will go to a period just before the Jjaro/Nar's previous slavery attempt. They will try to stop this, but not quite be successful. Then they will go back even further and try again on the next previous attack. That won't work either. (This will continue on and on and you [Bungie] can add your own little parts and twirks for the different chapters. Mabey one chapter could be back on Tau Ceti during the original attack. In that case there would also be the old Bobs that just run around screaming. Or a level in some kind of time warp with many copies of the Marine called "I'm Everywhere!". How about one in Egypt where the P'fhor are the ones who give the Egyptians their technology to build the pyramids. They might have been mistaken for 'Gods' and thus the Egyptians odd religion.) Finally, they end up back at the beginning of the P'fhor's slavery attempts, 300 years before the Tau Ceti attack (let's see, that would be about 2400 something). They stop that attempt, and convince them to help go back in time to enslave the Nar and Jjaro (before they were very powerful, of course. That would be somewhat like, 5600 BC if it took them 2000 years [just a guess] before the Nakh revolt). By the way, do you think that any Nakh survived to be enslaved in Andromeda? And howcome no one likes the Nebulons? What did they ever do to anybody? While I'm complaining, all I wan't is complete and total contol over the entire universe, is that too much to ask :-(		So in the end, the P'fhor are kept satisfied with their Jjaro and Nar slaves and never leave their home world again. The Jjaro and Nar have already been stripped of all their technology and are in the hands of the P'fhor. And, the original attack on Tau Ceti never even happens. If that never even happens, that would mean M2 would never happen either. Therefore putting an end to any more sequels.		If that happened in real life it would probably leave a hole in the space-time continuum (or something) and crash the entire universe, but this isn't real life, is it :-)		This adventure covers a lot of time, let's see that 5600 BC to 12883 AD equals:— 18483 years! WOW! [<<wiping sweat off my face>>]please don't think I'm just some kid with a wild imagination (Oh yes, I am one of those too! Aren't we all at heart?) but I really like this stuff and I like looking at all of the weird little things you leave lying around in your secret terminals and resourse forks and stuff. Don't get the wrong idea. I'm not reverse engineering it or anything (I couldn't do that if I tried). By the way, how can you extract sounds from the sounds file in M2. I can't seem to get any sound extraction program to work on that. I want to hear the Bobs scream "You Killed BOB!". And while I'm asking questions, is Sol our sun, some other planet, or what. And also how do you pronounce it: Sol like "Soul" or Sol like "Pine-Sol"? And another question, is Tau Ceti a Marsion moon, 'cause I thought I heard that somewhere? Thanks for considering the following, or actually, considering the previous. Write back to:	PFHORREST@aol.comHope to hear from you soon.(PS: Feel completely free to add anything you want to this (I have no copyrights or anything) and if you do use the ideas could I have some credit's and maybe a free copy please!? (I know you're nice people, aren't you?). Some of these ideas are one's I've gotten from other people, and if you like them then I will go and find their names online (AOL) so that you can give them credit too.)(PSS: If you aren't going to use this, then could you at least make another sequel to marathon. Like what really happens after "All Roads Lead to Sol". Let us take part in the final battle that destroy's the P'fhor. Of course, you could always use this as another sequel afterwards. 4 sequels get kinda boring, though.)(PSSS: I still haven't registered my copie of M2 yet, when I wrote to "register@bungie.com" and aked how to register, no one ever replied. Please help.-Forrest "pfhorrest" Cameranesi