The Obligatory Secret Hidden FileWelcome to this little voyage through my mind. Please keep your hands inside the vehicle until the ride comes to a complete stop. Leave all valuables at the front desk. Thank you for riding Forrest's Mind.(all times in Pacific zone)SECTION I -        FOREVER MORE(this section heavily snipped of childish and largely irrelevant information - hey, I was 13!)About 7:15 PM, 11/11/96The story's pretty much done. I'm having Spear (Ben Peterson) do some grammar checks on my terminals. I've made the first level, and so has he. No word from Ben (Wigler) yet. But anyway, I've sent my version of "Back To The Future" to Spear, and he should be sending me his version by sometime tomorrow.About 2:45 PM, 3/14/97A while ago, Adam (VanDine) said he'd do some maps for me. Well, yesterday he asked what levels to do, and I told him. But then, he said he could do artwork instead, since he had just bought Bryce 2, Poser 2, and he already had Ray Dream Designer. So now I'm gonna do levels 4 + 6, and let Adam do the art instead.About 8:00 PM, 4/4/97I redid a bunch of the levels. I made level 1 so you can see out into space, and I also made it so the Pfhor ship is just sitting there, not coming out of a portal or abducting Strauss or any of that junk. I released the Forever More Preview 2.0 a couple days ago. I also deleted some odd ramblings from this file (don't worry, nothing you'd be interested in). I got Chadd Nirvig to do a basic layout of S'pht Happens (level 7). I'm still having trouble with the terms in "Suck THIS!" and "Enin Rebmun", and can't seem to get the repair switch/wiring thing right for level 2. And the same thing, except to open a door or four on "Fear".About 4:30 PM, 5/10/97I added to the main room in Deja Vu (level 1, formerly Back to the Future), the one where the Marines and Pfhor are. I made it a lot taller, and had it so the Marines come down from platforms instead of just already being there. I think it looks more complex now, instead of just a big room with things killing each other, there's pillars to hide behind and run up and elevators and whatnot. Also, Mike's friend Chris pointed out that it should be O2/Hydro, not O2/Nitro (for the new flamethrower).About 6:30 PM, 5/16/97I officially upgraded Forever More to the new EVIL standard. Now we're going to have our own custom installer which asks for your Marathon Infinity files, makes duplicates of them, patches all of them to be completely different for Forever More, and then makes a new folder for them wherever you instruct it to. I'm also hoping to have a small install option for simply making a More Map, More Music, More Movie, More Shapes, and More Sounds, and placing them into your Infinity folder (for the small of hard disk). The new application has a whole new interface, music, names (eg "Forever More could not allocate enough memory" instead of "Marathon could not...") plus the standard scenario stuff (maps, shapes, sounds, etc). It also has an intro movie which plays every time you start a new game.About 9:20, 6/10/97I updated the FM application to Infinity 1.5. Sean did a really crappy job on everything. Now I asked Scott from the Chimera project (which am a part of) to do a whole new interface from scratch, which he seems to be quite good at. He did the interface for Chimera, and is doing the interface for Rameses too (theoretically). Steve screwed up with the music (it's good music, just not fitting), so I'm gonna use some music I also got from another guy on Chimera.About 1:20 PM, 7/10/97I changed the space-view thing on Deja Vu. I realised that the 'tunnel' you see out there is actually too high (the real tunnel inside it - just a long hallway - was lower than it appeared to be from the outside). Now that I lowered it, the spaceship looks like it's supposed to (a really big ship off in the distance) instead of like it used to (a little ship really close). It also makes the 'tunnel' look bigger. Yesterday, I made it so that Smells Like Durandal has one of those "look how far we can stretch the engine" views in it, but it didn't really come out very well. I tried to make it more obvious that it was a huge distance by putting a RocketBob in the farthest corner of it, hoping that he would shoot rockets at the player which would give better perspective of how big it is (there's 'glass' in the way, though, so the rockets wouldn't actually hit). The only problem is that the RocketBob won't shoot, because I'm too far away (I even extended it's range to 32768, the max it goes to). Or maybe it's because of the 1-poly-ledge rule. I'll go try to fix that now...About 12:00 AM, 7/12/97I've been working a ton on other levels now. I made "Suck THIS!" so that it's not as surreal with flashing floors and stuff, added beams to the ceiling, and made it so most of the level is sewage with a big pillar, instead of a big flat arena with a little circle of sewage in it. I also added some teasers in there (you can't TOZT this), and tried to make it so that the Marines don't kill each other when the first one just fires off a grenade while it's facing a wall. It worked...to an extent. They still die, but I'm too busy not dying (read: killing Troopers and Momma Hunters) to see how. Lets see, what else...I added ExplodaBobs to What's The Story, and I'm trying to get a dormant Juggernaut in there, but he seems...not there. That is, he won't teleport in. Uh...I noticed some little pits in "Hate" that I made when I first built the map, and decided to stretch them out and add Pfhor goo in there. Now they're big enough to actually fall in so it's be a little more fun than just running in a bunch of circles. I also made it so that the stairs toward the end of the level are more gradual, so the aliens will follow you down and you have to run around the level a bit in order to activate the final platform which will teleport you to the end of the level. Oh yeah, I made it so you can fall through some of the teleporters on Can't TOZT This down into the lava. I think I might have done other stuff, but it's too late and I can't think straight.About 1:10 PM, 7/14/97Yesterday I completely re-did the Pit-O-Deathª on Deja Vu, adding four triangular columns which are supposed to be lights. I did that because I noticed having two separate lighting styles, all flashing in certain patterns, with no lights to cast them... doesn't work (IRL). I also got that juggernaut to work on What's The Story, but for some reason when I shoot it with the railgun I die. Odd. So I got rid of the juggy. I also fixed the physics to work like a real railgun. Good. Bye.About 7:00 PM, 7/23/96I just got MacOS 8 today, and I so I turned off Aaron (actually Kaleidoscope, but I use the Platinum module, so...). Then I noticed that when Chicago (or Charcoal) is the default system font, as opposed to Espy Sans Bold (which I was using with Kaleidoscope) the changed buttons are a little off (that is, the words don't fit in the rects). So I fixed it. I also started incorporating some shapes from the dead Haydon project into the More Shapes file. I've decided to use the "Pfhor Assault Rifle" (or maybe it was some kind of plasma cannon. Whatever) from Haydon as the EMR, because it just looks right and because it's actually done. I'm gonna use the "minigun" for the DRL-M, but it doesn't quite look right. Whatever, I'm nearing dealine and need to get stuff done, so it'll have to do. The story behind Hate has changed a bit, because I wanted Durandal to drop you into a pit of lava with the Pfhor. It just makes a more interesting plotline that "go here, do this".About 5:50 PM, 8/20/97I notice that I never made an entry when Phil said he would expand on some of the levels for me. Well, I just got back the first example of his work, and it's great! He made an outside ring for Deja Vu, and renamed it Deja Vu All Over Again (fitting). He also did a cool lighting effect back in there, with a little searchlight-like thing sweeping back and forth across the room. I just realised an improvement I could make. I'll go do that now.SECTION II -        DESPAIR(this section also snipped of childish and irrelevant information)About 6:30, 9/30/97I GIVE UP!!! As of tomorrow we will have missed the final release date. Forever More is no longer (actually, it hasn't been for a while) the be-all, end-all scenario I originally intended it to be. I just want to get a chance to squeeze my little project out the door in a respectable state. I need people with talents I don't have. Scott whipped up some spiffy little door, terminal, and recharger textures which are pretty much the same as they were before, sans logos (Pat dissapeared off the face of the Net. Speaking of which, so has Josh, my sounds guy).  I changed Deja Vu a bit, just minor things like adding a switch or two and a recharger. Smells Like Durandal is still malfunctioning. I'm busy with school, Rameses, Chimera, and a new start-up company I'm working with called Obsidian. Chris, Spear, Mike, and Ben are busy with Obsidian. Scott is busy with Chimera. Svy is busy with Rameses. Phil is busy with school and his grandma. Everyone else is just flaking off. This sucks.About 2:30 PM, 10/17/97Svy got some new-and-improved S'pht shapes to me - and he says he's gonna try to patch in the RocketBobs. Chadd is working on one of the Chaos levels (theoretically), and I WANT MY SOUNDS, JOSH! Whatever, I'm rambling.About 10:30 PM, 11/23/97I did some expansion work on Raven Mad (now "Stark Raven Mad"). Svy is still [theoretically] working on the RocketBob patch, but he's mostly busy managing Rameses. Chris is being Chris. Nobody else seems to exist. Jesse is not accepting email or Instant Messages anymore. Scott is doing Chimera, and that's totally rocking. I think Chimera and Rameses are probably gonna beat FM to the release-date punch, even though most of FM is already done.About 6:00 PM, 2/16/98Like a pheonix rising from it's own ashes, Forever More is dead - Eternal reigns now. I've changed the name, and all the images and logos, to shed the bad "FM" image. I've petitioned the rest of the group to find a new leader, someone who can get this project out there, someone who people will listen to. I'll still have the last word, and probably keep updating this file, slowly.About 2:00 AM, 2/21/98In the past few days I have completely rewritten the entire Eternal story. I even made the layout of the levels make sense (that is, I explained it, not just a bunch of polys randomly thrown together). You know, the weird thing is, I wrote the story to go along with the levels, instead of making levels to match the story, the way I did originally with Forever More. The only exception is that I scrapped the last two levels in the "Lh'owon" chapter, because they sucked anyway. And the last three levels of the whole thing, which are currently non-existant, have been redesigned to add some variety, and because of storyline changes. And I finally got a good ending! (at least, a non-cheezy, non-boring ending).About 1:00 PM, 2/22/98I just thought that I should mention, Quartz from AGM joined the team a few days ago. He's gonna try to fix the weapon shapes, patch in the RocketBobs, patch in the AR Marines, fix a few shapes-related glitches in the physics model, and maybe a few other things I can't think of right now. Well, I gotta go have breakfast :)About 8:30 PM, 3/10/98Oh yeah, Quartz is doing a lot more. He's fixing physics models, patching in the weapons, rocketbobs, AR marines, and S'pht (all from scratch images, since the previous patch-ins were all crappy), designing two weapons (the ROZT-R and WHPAS), designing new terminals/pattern-buffers/rechargers/switches. I, meanwhile, have overhauled a few levels. Deja Vu got some extra Bobs in the main room, another corridor on the far north, and some major changes and additions to the big outside space view (which is now less of a space view and more of a view into some sort of big loading bay with a Pfhor ship flying into it). I'm still waiting for someone to fix that damn chip insert on Tastes Like Teen Spirit (formerly "Smells Like Durandal"). I made all the stairs on What's The Story into platforms, and the middle section into a crushing platform. Can't TOZT This still needs blastable circuitry, and if nobody volunteers to be a mapmaker for me I'll have to do the rest of this stuff all by myself. Lets see... the tower chambers in S'pht Happens got expanded, and it still needs all the warrior rooms and such. Still need the next two levels after that. Hate needs blastable circuitry. Pain got some changes, now you start out in a stasis chamber and teleport into prison, where you get a 3X shield powerup and a pistol, followed shortly after by an AR. I also raised the ceiling on the outside area, got rid of the weird little liquid-filled room, and made a high-up passageway from the top part to the bottom (it used to be all at one elevation). What else? Fear needs blastable circuitry. And the last four levels are non-existant. Well, that's all for now.About 5:00 PM, 3/13/98Since yesterday I've been altering the big space views on Deja Vu. Now there's a lot of places where you can look outside and see walls and buildings and such, and then later go around inside those places. Well, it was already like that, but now it's more so, and more consistant as well. I also annotated lots of areas, now it actually makes sense for a ship layout. Kinda.About 1:00 PM, 3/18/98Yesterday I changed the terminal interface (the stuff it says in the borders, and the standard format of terminals with their logon/logout messages). I also made some big improvements to Raven Mad, with a big crew's bunker and a little command center (although it needs a new more control doo-dads, not just that one switch). Now you have to think a little to escape the level, and it's more interesting as well.About 8:04 PM, 6/22/98In three months, nothing significant has happened. At least, nothing relating to Eternal. Until now. Now, I've proposed a merger of Eternal with Rameses and Chimera. Chimera is non-linear and has already assimilated another scenario, Salinger. With Eternal's time-traveling plotline, and another Jjaro macro-plot, we can tie in everything, all the Marathon's, PiD, all of the plotlines in this new super-Chimera (we're keeping the name Chimera), and even a vauge allusion to Myth. Scott, the Chimera management, has agreed, as has Ben (who is now a silent partner in Rameses), so now I just await word from Svy. The talent and management that the Chimera team has could save both these dying scenarios and reinvigorate the Marathon universe.About 12:00 AM, 7/31/98Another uneventfull month. Quartz is busy with Hoth and hence hasn't done anything with my shapes and whatnot. Rameses was dropped from the Chimera merger shortly after it was proposed, and now it's back stagnating alongside Eternal. For the past week, Chris Lund - another leader in the Chimera project, former co-head of the Salinger project along with Dan Rudolph -  he and I have been arguing over why or why not to do the merger, and finally Chris just put his foot down and said no, and Scott doesn't think there's enough reason for them to do the merger as compared to Chris' opposition, so that's dropped.On the bright side, I expanded "What's The Story, Morning Glory" from 20-something to almost 200 polys, and added a reason to justify it's existance in the scenario. It's still pitifully small, but it's a start. I'm depressed and it's late, so now I go off to read. To read, and to sleep. Sleep will make me God. Er... no, nevermind that last part.SECTION III -        REBIRTHAbout 9:00 PM, 8/8/98I've started going through expanding all of the too-small levels. I started with What's The Story, and now (starting yesterday, finishing today) I've completely redone Smells Like Durandal from scratch, and renamed it "Smells Like O2, Tastes Like Nitro". It's now almost 600 polys, as opposed to to the 50-something is was. Now on to Raven Mad. Well, maybe tomorrow.About 1:30 AM, 8/9/98It's tomorrow. I cleaned up Deja Vu just now, the constuction was so ad-hoc and messy. Now it's cleaner and more realistic. I think maybe if I get all these maps done, and at 500+ polys each (at least), then people might be willing to help me out with the shapes and sounds (and KEEP helping, as so many people have come and gone on the project. It seems sloppily run projects like Chimera, where they just take in everything they can and distribute it immediately and nobody's got the same version of it all - anyway, it seems they run quicker and smoother than organized, mechanical scenarios like Rameses and Eternal). So, I'll do Raven Mad this afternoon, then I'll think of some way of expanding Suck THIS as it's only around 200 polys. What's The Story still needs a little more expansion, it's only around 200 polys as well. Can't TOZT This could be expanded from the computer room raditating outwards, S'pht Happens needs the "warrior rooms", Sleeping Gods and Dogs Die both need to be done. Hate is tiny, but I can't think of any way to expand on it (maybe I should just re-do it from scratch). Pain could be expanded through those two (currently locked) doors near the exit terminal, and I've got an idea what to put back there. Fear should be redone from scratch, and the last levels still need to be done as they're not started at all. At this rate, Duality will be out by the time Eternal is released. Heck, maybe even Obsidian's first major game (under the name of Static Dreams Interactive), "Escape", could be out by then. But that's then. For now, I need some sleep.About 11:45 PM, 8/9/98I just finished expanding Stark Raven Mad. I deleted everything but the crew quarters and north crew quarter control room, and then redid the rest of the level on a more organized theme than it and most of these other maps were originally contructed (that was "ok, put a poly here, and there, and I suppose that would look nice, and do a neato curve here..."). Now all the levels are actually themed after the place that they're really supposed to be taking place. So tomorrow, Suck THIS!About 10:00 PM, 8/10/98Today I started on the expansion of Suck This. I decided to add three half-arenas in addition to the central arena, plus another odd little area in the south. It struck me that this resembled G4 Sunbathing (which was my original inspiration for the level, though it didn't turn out much like it until recently). Add to that the title "Suck THIS!" doesn't make sense anymore (it was a parody of "Defend THIS!", since the terminal on Raven Mad that originally sent you there was from Tycho, and his departing comments were "Suck vacuum, fool!". So I called the successive vacuum level "Suck THIS!"). Anyway, I renamed it to "G3 Moonshowering", in mock of Sunbathing of course. I've got the central arena and eastern observation deck done, the northern observation deck partially done, the southern area begun, and the western observation deck half begun. I could have finished it tonight, but our local (Ventura) County Fair was today, so I've been gone since about 4 o'clock. Now I'm off to see what more I can do before I get too tired.About 1:00 AM, 8/11/98Finished working on Moonshowering for the night. The east observation deck is completely done now (I changed it a bit), the west deck is close to done but need the changes I made to the east one, the northwest dock is done, the northeast dock needs texturing and lighting, as does the north observation deck (which also needs some geometry changes, I get too-many-transparent-line errors in there, which, coincidentally, was why I made that change to the east deck). And that southern area needs something, it's too bland. Well, that's for tomorrow. I'm getting too tired to work any more tonight.About 6:00 PM, 8/11/98Finally, I'm done with Moonshowering. It had tons of transparent line errors. You see, when I thought I was finished, it was still on the small side (300-something polys) even though the map took up almost the entire grid. So I threw in a bunch of little complexities and got it up near 500. But then I got the transparent line errors, and had to go through and fix the geometry and re-texture certain areas a dozen times and it's all such a hassle. So, that's all for today, I think. Tomorrow, What's The Story gets another revamping.About 12:00 AM, 8/12/98I started the revamping of What's The Story, adding the first of four little remote input stations between the pumps and filters, but got bored of that pretty quick. So I moved on to Can't TOZT This, and increased it from 60-something to 233 polys. I like the new shape of Olifant's core from map mode, so I think I'm gonna do an image in a similar shape and use that for Olifant's logon. I think I need some sleep now, I haven't been feeling too great tonight.About 3:00 PM, 8/12/98Well, I may have finished Can't TOZT This. It seems complete, I can't think of anything to add without excessive, unneeded complexity (as in, yeah, I could force the player to run around and hit buttons for no good reason, but I'm too logical of a person to do that). So the problem is, it's still only at 300-something polys (360-something, to be exact). I suppose poly count isn't all that matters, though, and the size of the last few levels should make up for the smallness of these few.About 5:00 PM, 8/23/98I've added to Can't TOZT This, it's between 400 and 500 polys now. I've also 'finished' What's The Story, at 300-something. Though I'd still like to expand it, I'm even more stumped here than I was on Can't TOZT This. I've also designed about 160 textures, and if I can find someone to do them I'll add those to the scenario package as well. Just moments ago, I started to re-do Hate. I've begun thinking about adding two more chapters (9 more levels), called "War" and "Pfhor". War would be located between Olifant and Lh'owon, and take place in the Human-vs-Pfhor War, while Pfhor would be between Lh'owon and Outpost, and would be an attempt by Durandal to do as much damage to the Pfhor as Olifant had just done to the S'pht, so that it wouldn't detrement his creation in any way. If what's already planned gets done, we may do all that.About 9:30 PM, 8/23/98Finished the geometry of the new Hate. Almost 500 polys, formerly about 50. If I had been working at this rate for the past two years, there'd be over a hundred levels in this scenario. Or, more likely, two or three separate scenarios. Or maybe just two. I'll probably not make a thing for Marathon once this is done, I just feel I have to contribute something (that, and the fact that I'm extremely tenaciouslywhen it comes to giving up things that I like, especially things that I've had for years, which includes projects and ideas like this one). So, tommorow, textures and lighting for Hate, and maybe some added geometry on Pain.About 6:30 PM, 8/24/98Wow. For some reason, Hate is taking much longer than the other maps I've worked on so far. It took me all evening to get the geometry done yesterday, and I've been sitting here working since 3:00 and I'm still not quite done with the texturing. I did have to do the floor and ceiling heights, though, so that's taken a chunk of my time as well. I'm getting burnt out of working here, especially in this heat, so I'll do the lights and platforms/switches later on. Off to, I dunno, swimming I guess.About 6:00 PM, 8/25/98Pretty much finished Hate, and that'd good because I've been working on it all day (on and off, of course). Geometry, floors/ceiling, textures, lighting, platforms & switches & tags, only things left to do are objects and liquids. I also noticed that I never did any liquids on Smells Like O2, and left out some monsters on Raven Mad. Bah, I'll do that later.About 4:00 PM, 8/27/98Yesterday and today I've been working on Pain, and now it's pretty much finished. It's only 300-something polys, but I noticed the other day that that's more polys than any M1 map had, and M1 is my favorite of the trilogy (not for the maps, though). So I suppose one or two smallish maps won't kill the game off. I've also got "Guile" on the project, a friend from the Good Ol' Days (TM) when AOL was cool and Marathon was still young and alive, and he's working on textures and chapter screens. Also, two or three guys have responded to my ad in the 'Marathon Classifieds' as they've come to be called (Simon Brownlee's automated "Volunteers" page at Marathon Central), so I've got a couple new mapmakers. One of them is working with (for?) Nardo on The Lost Levels, so I know that he's a valuable addition if Nardo likes him. And also, another guy responding to the ad is supposedly working on patching in shapes for the RocketBobs and doing their appropriate physics, but I haven't heard from him since I gave him that assignment. So, that's news.About 8:30 PM, 8/28/98I've done most of the geometry of Fear over the past few hours. It's only in the upper 300s on poly count, but there's not really anything to add to it. I've just gone though and cleaned out this file right now, as it's approaching SimpleText's fscking 32K text limit. So, I deleted the dividers and a few pointless entries. I'll finish Pain off tomorrow.About 10:00 AM, 8/29/98I finished Fear last night, though I'm not sure if the switches and wires and such will work. So, yeah. Fear's done, for now at least.About 11:40 PM, 8/29/98I've been working on expanding S'pht Happens for the past hour or so, and realized that these random, natural areas aren't as hard as I expected. I usually do very symmetrical, orderly things, with 'curves' following certain patterns, or n-degree grids (45, 90, etc) and so on. This works fine for buildings and ships, but I knew that I wouldn't be able to do a convincingly real enough natural, outdoor area this way. So I'm sitting here, bored, and I though I'd take a hack at S'pht Happens anyway. I just threw a bunch of random lines in there, with an intermittened room here or there, and then connected the lines in a way that made a bunch of convex polygons. That was a really easy way to bump up floor space and poly count, as I did the geometry for almost 200 polys covering probably at least 50 square WUs, plus deciding on the layout of rooms and such, in a space of time under an hour. Whee.About 1:30 PM, 8/30/98The geometry and floor/ceiling heights are all done for S'pht Happens. It's now over 500 polys. I'll do platforms/switches/tags/etc, textures, lighting, etc later on.About 7:30 PM, 8/30/98Finished S'pht Happens, though I may make some lighting changes later.About 12:00 AM, 9/7/98I've been working on "Dogs Die, Gods..." for the past few hours. I've got most of the lines drawn out, and it looks like it'll be at least 500 polys, probably more. But I might end up  with some transparent poly errors, by the looks of things. Also, one of my new mapmakers, Caleb Gostoves, has been working on "Let Sleeping Gods Die". The first version was tiny, under 100 polys and not very large on floor space. The latest version is about 200, and looks like it's acceptably large on floor space. I've still got to take a better look at it, though, I've been busy preparing for school, working out at TaeKwonDo, and trying to savor the last moments of summer. And the basic Human functions, of course, which take up at least half my time. Now it's time for some of those functions, the most time consuming one at that, so I'm off to bed. I'll do more on Dogs Die tomorrow.About 2:00 PM, 9/7/98I had to re-do most of the lines on Dogs, due to (as I suspected) transparent poly errors. But now I've got all the geometry done, polys filled, and it's up over 600 polys. But now I'm getting burnt out, I've been working on this all morning.About 5:30 PM, 9/7/98Did floor and ceiling heights for Dogs. And the liquids, too. I also had to add three other areas to allow players to get out of the pillar-hopping areas since the distances between pillars, and the respective heights of them, prevented the player from jumping back up to the main room (with the water column and recharger and teleporter). Sure, I could have just adjusted the distances but then; what if the player fell off one of the pillars? So I made a big "non-sentient evacuation chamber" for each "warrior room", which I may explain as being a method for the S'pht to get F'lick'ta out of those chambers (since F'lick'ta can't fly like the S'pht can, and neither can the player - it's convenient). So, now it's over 700 polys, making it the largest level in the scenario thus far. But I'm getting burned out again.About 11:30 PM, 9/8/98I've almost finished the lights and textures for Dogs. I've just got a few details left, and the eastern "warrior room". I really like the lighting I did on some parts of this level. And doh!, I just realised that I still need to texture/light the central area too. So, all that and a bag of chips, tomorrow.About 4:15 PM, 9/10/98Like I said, I did finished off Dogs yesterday, at least as far as visuals go. I've still got to "wire" it (platforms, tags, switches, etc). But the main point of this entry is that I've rewritten the story yet again. I've added two chapters, like I said I might do back on 8/23, and I've renamed a number of levels. What used to be level 13, called "Unlucky For Some", is now "Phht, Just Like That" (and is level 22 now). The five levels in the War chapter are named and described. The Lh'owon levels have been renamed; what I've been calling "Let Sleeping Gods Die" is now level 13, so it's "Unlucky For Some" (for the S'pht Defenders, certainly). What I've been calling "Dogs Die, Gods..." (a name I never really liked much anyway) is now "Let Sleeping Gods Die". The levels in the Pfhor chapter are mostly unnamed, except for one of them, "Eat S'pht". Hate is now "Door Number Three", Pain is now "The Incredible Hulk", and Fear is now "Do Not Feed The Bears". And the last three levels are "I Had A Name Once", "Where Giants Have Fallen", and "Death Becomes Her". So, yeah.About 10:45 PM, 9/10/98I just did the geometry for the first of the War levels, "Of War And Peace". It's a really gigantic level as far as floor space goes, but surprisingly it's not quite 500 polys. That could be that 3/4 of the entire map grid is made up of about 70 polys; actually, that is why, but poly count doesn't matter and 477 is enough anyway, considering the vastness of the whole thing. So, yeah. Big level.About 10:00 PM, 9/22/98I've been slacking a bit, but now I've just finished "Of War And Peace".About 5:15 PM, 9/24/98I'm about to begin work on the second level of the War levels, named "Suck THIS!" (as that name isn't in use anymore, and it fits the theme of ambushing the Pfhor by making them suck vacuum). I also renamed "Of War And Peace" to just "War & Peace".About 6:15 PM, 8/2/98Just finished Suck THIS, at about 550 polys. Lee Hedia from alt.games.marathon also joined the team a few days ago. He's working on textures now.About 3:00 PM, 10/30/98Huzzah! I've been stuck on the new "Back To The Future", the first level of the Pfhor chapter, for a while now. Lots of geometrical problems; bouncy and sticky polys, distance errors, transparent line errors, and total crashes at render.c (please write this down and make a bug report!). But I've just fixed them all, or at least enough that I can go and texture it now. Finally.About 12:00 AM, 10/31/98Happy Halloween! Started editing this file in Claris, now that it's exceeded the 32K text limit for the umpteenth time and I don't want to delete anything more from it.About 6:00 PM, 11/1/98Finished (?) Back To The Future.About 2:45 PM, 11/4/98Finished the geometry and floor/ceiling heights for Eat S'pht. Well, sorta. It's small, around 250 polys, and I want to make it bigger, but I can't think of anything to add. Perhaps some big carn-fest area. Yeah, after you fill the moat and kill the Pfhor scouting party, Durandal will teleport you to a nearby area to ambush a heavy assault group (a Juggernaut and his friends). Whee!About 1:00 PM, 11/23/98Finished (?) "Eat S'pht". Didn't do the scouting party thing I planned above, because I couldn't fit it very well into the map without putting it in places where other things are supposed to be (and are, in other maps of the S'pht Citadel, like "Eat It, Vid Boi" and "S'pht Happens"). So, it's done, at least for now.About 1:00 PM, 11/25/98Finished the line geometry for "Gamma Knife Therapy". This map looks like it's gonna be HUGE, perhaps almost as big as Aye Mak Sicur (nee "Pfhactory N'Utopia", and other variants). It's the whole bow sector of the central (7th) deck of a Pfhor imperial battle cruiser assaulting Lh'owon. So, big ship, big level. Covers the entire grid, every corner is rounded ala "Pfhor Your Eyes Only", tons of detail. Too bad I'm not very good at doing overlapping spaces (Chadd did the tower of "S'pht Happens" - I could never have done that, at least not as quickly and easily as he did), or I would have made parts of the 6th and 8th decks as well. But it's big enough as it is :-)About 4:00 PM, 11/25/98Just filled all the polys in Gamma, and I pushed right up against the 1024 limit. I had to go and delete some little details like redundant rechargers and terminals and pattern buffers, just geometric scenery in and around the bridge. So, my first 1024-poly map. This reminds me, playing through Eternal is not just the evolution of a storyline inside the game, but also the evolution of my mapmaking skills. Maybe I'll put something about that in the e-manual.About 6:30 PM, 11/26/98Happy Thanksgiving. Aside from that, I noticed an odd thing in Forge while starting Gamma's floor and ceiling heights. I tried to drop into visual mode to see how some jumps worked out, and it kept crashing at "game_wad.c" (something about the map [wad] in visual mode [game], obviously. Hey, I just noticed that if you rotate the W and the D in 'wad' 180 degrees, they become M and P and it spells 'map'!) as soon as I tried to enter visual mode. I tried the usual fixes (checking for transparent lines, distance errors, zero-length line, etc), but nothing. So I figure it must have something to do with the map being 1024 polys. I delete one (the big, locked door in the southern part of the ship), and it works. So Marathon only likes 102*3* polys, not the 1024 like it claims. Hrm. Just like it only likes numbers up to 32767 instead of the nice, round 32768. Hrm again. Hrmph even. Heh.About 3:30 PM, 11/27/98Finished floor and ceiling heights for Gamma. This level is such a hassle to build, especially since my habit of pressing command-S whenever I reach a breaking point (finish one room, enter or leave visual mode, etc) takes a couple of seconds to complete the command, interrupting my workflow. And the fact that, working at this pace, I could finish a 300-500 poly map in the time it's taken me to get this far, so I feel like I'm behind when I've really done MORE work than I usually would.About 12:33 AM, 11/29/98I just flew in from texturing Gamma and boy are my hands tired! I've been working on it all day, with occasional breaks for consumation, defacation, and resting my brain. So, tomorrow I light it, which I hope with be easier than texturing, though I doubt it. Then wiring. Oh boy...SECTION IIII -        SECOND LIFEAbout 12:00 AM, 12/8/98Yesterday (or some time around then; I heard about it yesterday) Crack Dot Com went bankrupt or something. Normally, this wouldn't matter to me, except that they released everything from their in-progress game "Golgotha". Normally that wouldn't matter either, except for how cool some of the stuff was. I downloaded a buttload of textures from their site, and spent large portions of the last two days whipping them into shape (resizing, modifying, creating variants, etc) for Eternal. So, I've now got about 100 out of 160 textures done (not counting Lee's original textures). Of course, lots of them need some other variants which I haven't the skill for, and they'll probably need to be refined a bit, but this is still a big boon for us. Woohoo!About 6:15 PM, 12/17/98I've really been slacking, but I just finished Gamma. Yay (!).About 11:40 PM, 2/14/99Merry Christmas, Happy New Years, and Happy Valentines Day. Now that we're done with the formalities, I'm here to make note that the main interface has been totally redone (again) and this time it really looks professional. Really. Seriously this time. I don't intend to change this one much, if at all. Thanks to Claude Ererra for the "ETERNAL" text in Modula Tall. Also, Adam Jakob Adamczyk from AGM is doing chapter screens and some term pics. And I'm almost done with "Carnagee Hall".About 4:00 PM, 2/16/99I just finished Carnagee. Welcome back the Pfhor Cyborg Controllers :-)About 6:00 PM, 2/26/99I've added and refined a few textures (mostly control panels and terminals and the like), written up a little bit of the manual (story info and weapon descriptions and such), and just now I finished adding a ton of those little double-wall-lights (like from Ne Cede Malis and Aye Mak Sicur) to Deja Vu. I'm probably gonna be going through the other levels adding tiny details like this soon, just because I'm bored as hell and the only levels remaining to be done all require quite a bit more skill than I have, mostly because of overlapping spaces, which I *hate* messing with. (The space-views in Deja Vu were annoying to make, and S'pht Happens was just plain hell).About 4:15 PM, 3/14/99I just thought I should make note that over the past few days I've been tooling around in Photoshop, teaching myself how to make dirty variants of textures. Sets 1 (Lh'owon), 2 (Lava), and 3 (Marathon) are basically done, set 4 (Jjaro) only needs five more textures (dirty versions of the Tan Walls, and a Sparkly Static Force Shield), and set 5 (Pfhor) only needs two more textures (slimey versions of the Grey Spirals). Of course a lot of these need to be touched up and some (like the Lava Rechargers) need to be completely redone, but they're enough to begin retexturing the maps as soon as someone with Anvil 1.0.2 can patch them in (I've only got 1.0.4, which doesn't like shapes editing).On another note, Adam has got chapter screens 1 (Marathon), 2 (Olifant), and 4 (Lh'owon), the term pic logo for Durandal, and a couple landscapes all done. Things are coming together!About 10:15 PM, 4/12/99Well, I came here to make a note that I've finished retexturing the first five levels, but then I noticed that I never mentioned that I began retexturing levels.In the past month, we've filled all five texture sets, though they're still not finished - that is, all the textures are there, they just need to be refined. Well, all but the Pfhor set, which still need four more textures (to replace the Grey Spirals, which I realized don't fit). Lee is working on these, but it sure is taking forever. It's just one texture, a dirty version of it, and then rotate them both 90¡ for the other varients.In other news, chapter screen 7 (Chaos) is just about done, chapter 6 (Outpost) is getting pretty close, chapter 5 (Pfhor) still needs some work, and chapter 3 (War) is about as close as Outpost. As for landscapes, Lh'owon in the Day is done (easy little tweak on Bungie's day landscape), Smogy Pfhor Skies is also done (a straight port from Golgotha), Lh'owon in the Night is just standard Bungie, Lh'owon from Low Orbit is done, Alien Moon is under way, Moon from Low Orbit is done, Spacescape is standard Bungie, and Chaoscape is under way. Also, I've rearranged the scenery items, created some new things from old ones (Tall Lava Splashes, which is just orange-tinted Tall Water Splashes, for example), importing a few sprites from elsewhere (Tick, F'lickta, Bob, Pfhor, and Wasp bodies), copied a few over from M1 (Dissected Bob, Marathon, Pfhor ship), and imported some new ones that Adam has made (Tau Ceti Sunrise). We still need a few more, such as the Tick and F'lickta skeletons, and they still need to be put together into proper sequences, and the app Fuxed up to use them properly, but it's going pretty well.I've put in a request at Marathon Central's "Volunteers" page, so I should have some more news soon.About 5:00 PM, 4/14/99Finished retexturing Can't TOZT This. Skipped the War chapter because it's all in the Pfhor texture set, which is not quite finished yet (still awaiting four last textures from Lee). Began retexturing S'pht Happens, and I'm 2/3 through as of now. Might finish the other third tonight; might not. We'll see.About 3:00 PM, 4/15/99Yes, I finished S'pht Happens last night, and just did Unlucky For Some right now. Things are speeding up, it seems. Also, in a surprising turn of events, Borzz of Tempus Irae fame (!) might be alpha/beta testing Eternal, along with (possibly) Nick Head, Carl "Da Kril" Linberry, and my own friend Charon (who's busy with EMR right now, but might give me some feedback out of curiosity anyway).About 5:45 PM, 4/17/99Just finished retexturing Let Sleeping Gods Die, as well as adjusting some lighting, and wiring up the teleporters. I still need to get someone else to do the switch-puzzles.About 2:30 PM, 4/27/99Just a quick note here, that Back To The Future and Eat S'pht have been retextured, The Incredible Hulk is about 2/3rds retextured (I skipped Gamma Knife Therapy and Door Number Three because those a Pfhor-texture levels, an the Pfhor set isn't done yet), Texture Shuttle 1.9 has been released (with all the changes I've been making, but still an incomplete Pfhor set, hence the 1.9 moniker instead of a full 2), and Borzz pointed out some problems on Deja Vu which have been fixed.About 4:00 PM, 5/1/99Just finished retexturing "Please Don't Feed The Bears" (formerly "Do Not Feed The Bears"), and The Incredible Hulk has been finished for a few days. Now I can't really do anything until I get those last four Pfhor textures. Hrmph.About 10:30 PM, 5/17/99Lee finally got me those last four Pfhor textures a day or three ago, and I just finished retexturing War And Peace. In the mean time, I've cut & pasted together some solo AR marines, Adam has finished Moonscape and Chaoscape, several new scenery items like Tau Ceti Sunrise and Chaotic Sun, and chapterscreens 5, 6, and 7. The major things remaining are:Chapterscreen 3; some texture improvement and fixes; projectile sprites for railgun; new Marine torso images for new weapons; and the Tick Skeleton, F'lickta Skeleton, and Big Rock scenery items. Richard need to put the finishing touches on Viscera; levels 9, 10, and 22 through 25 need to be made; and three Pfhor levels must be retextured. Terminals texts and pics must be made, as well as music. And then lots of patching and fuxing and physics editing to fit it all together.About 7:00 PM, 5/21/99Quick note: "Suck THIS!" is finally retextured, and Adam almost has the Big Rock scenery item done.About 10:20 PM, 5/24/99After a hard weekend of toiling away on Gamma Knife Therapy, all my maps are finally retextured.About 4:45 PM, 5/28/99Seeing as I was hoping to have everything "done" (beta-quality) by the end of this month, but Richard has vanished and nobody else responds to my requests for mapmakers, I've gone through and started working on some maps that I originally planned to have lots of 5D space, but that could live without it. Particularly level 10, in the Pfhor city, which I'm calling "Center City" for now (due to it's highly symmetrical design) - I'm trying to think of a better name, something along the lines of "Madison Cube Garden" (instead of Madison Square Garden), or "Time Cube" (instead of Time Square). I've just finished the basic geometry and floor/ceiling heights, as well as a little bit of texturing.SECTION V -        THE ENDAbout 1:40 PM, 6/7/99I've been slacking a lot lately, both finishing up school and just being generally lazy. Center City is almost done, just need to finish wiring it and add some lighting. I've got a feeling that I'm going to miss my planned release date. In other news, I put four textures from Infinity back into the Water set, at Richard's request, and have retextured some of my Water levels accordingly. And on a very sour note, Adam has just quit for no apparent reason; he was working on patching in the new weapons to test them in some of his map, when he just decided that this project wasn't for him. This is very bad news, because chapterscreen 3 is still unfinished. I can find graphics artists for other tasks, but to have one chapterscreen that doesn't fit in with the others would just look plain old wrong. I've got a bad feeling about this.About 3:30 PM, 6/11/99I've just finished Center City (yeah, I've been slacking again), and as I noticed that I missed "Door Number Three" when I was retexturing Pfhor levels. So, I'm retexturing that now. Also, a note for the record, Adam didn't just quit for "no apparent reason"; he just feels that the team is too small and slow-moving, that the project hasn't much of a future, and on top of all that, he doesn't like the quality of his own work and (due the the previous reasons) isn't motivated enough to bring it up to his own standards. But he's finishing up what he had in progress at least, and he says to get back in touch with him in a month or two if I still need his help, as he might feel different then.About 6:00 PM, 6/16/99First, a followup: I completely retextured Door Number Three back on the 11th. Quick and easy. But the meat of this entry is that I finished "Phht, Just Like That!" today. It's quite a bit less than I originally envisioned (something like Gamma Knife Therapy, but vertically oriented, so there'd be lots of overlapping spaces), as it's only ~500 polys and doesn't quite take up whole mesh, and has no overlapping spaces at all (as I really, really don't like doing them, as I've said before). But I left doorways around here and there, so maybe when I get someone who can reasonably do 5D space, they can add some extra levels to Phht.About 3:40 PM, 8/5/99Again, a followup first: I got my hands dirty and broke out the asprin, and made another level to Phht myself, bringing it up near 700 polys and increasing the play-length of it. Now, for the real news (aside from missing my release date, AGAIN). My old friend Guile from AOL's Bungie Boards has agreed to go over all the Eternal textures and bring them up to professional quality (a while back, I did a poll on AGM regarding the quality of Eternal, and most people said the textures needed to be reworked). ToRt Go, also an old friend from the Bungie Boards, has been and still is sending me all the material from the dead Rameses project that he has lying around on his HD, and I may integrate some of that into Eternal, though most likely just a few of the netmaps and perhaps some textures. I've also begun work on "I Had A Name Once", though like Phht, it will be less impressive than originally planned.About 4:15 PM, 8/7/99Just finished the geometry for "I Had A Name Once". I decided to break out the Asprin and go hog-wild with overlapping space - at least, hog-wild by my standards; one section with three overlapping rooms and another with two. Not as hard as I remembered, though probably because last time I did much overlapping space was tooling up S'pht Happens, which has seven nearly identical levels directly atop eachother. Anyway, I'll start texturing next.About 12:45 PM, 9/23/99First off, I finished I Had A Name Once a while back. And now, I've decided to go through all the levels I have done and start nitpicking to my heart's content, getting rid of all the little problems and annoyances around them (such as 2WU-tall doors and slightly misaligned textures). So, maybe that'll up the quality a bit.About 11:00 PM, 4/9/99Happy Halloween and Thanksgiving, Merry Christmas, happy new year/decade/century/millenium (going by the CE calendar, not AD), Valentine's Day, St. Patrick's Day, and here's hoping for a good easter.I spent the fall buried in school work, and winter recovering from it, so not much happened then. But now I've started up again, and BIG things are happening, as they do every spring/summer. I've gotten together with my Bungie.org friends (did I ever mention that I work for Bungie.org now?). I've got a big request at Recruits and news going at ScenarioNews, culminating with the effect that I'm hiring a producer to manage Eternal since I have a Real Job now and have to work a lot. Hopefully he'll be a better leader than I, and be able to finish things off. I've released all the in-progress work at the Orphanage for others to use.Guile is working on new textures, slowly, and the Lava set is almost to b3 (which will likely be FC1). The other sets need work, and I'm gonna try to pull from Rameses and other orphaned projects to clean them up. (Note to self: send Rameses to the Orphanage). As bits get completed - texture sets, scenery, weapons, landscapes, etc - I'll release them at the Archives. We'll get a small teaser/progress page up at the Big House, and Eternal 1.0 shall be released!After that, I've got more plans. Aleph One, the Marathon open-source movement, is really revving up, and when it's reached full version-number (instead of 0.x), I'd like to upgrade Eternal to take advantage of it. I'll also see if Orbital Arm will port parts of it to M2/Win, for "Eternal Lite for Windows". Finally, if Aleph One ever goes cross-platform with the proposed new XML/ZIP file-format, port things all around for Eternal 3.0.But for now, getting anything done and released will be plenty for me. :-)About 4:00 PM, 5/11/99Well, I've got someone else to take over as producer, but he's not having any more luck than I was getting people recruited. Meanwhile I've taken advantage of the Orphanage and used some materials there and from Rameses to improve the textures sets. Jjaro is finished, Lava is basically finished, and the rest are pretty close to it. I also worked some more weapons out of the old Halcyon materials I've got lying around, so now all but the fists have been replaced. Just now, I finished touching-up Deja Vu to take advantage of the new, improved texture sets.About 1:40 PM, 5/28/99I've touched-up everything up to War & Peace, taking advantage of the better texture sets. I also decided that Pfhor goo looks better in pink than it does in red. Those Pfhor just have a certain flair for garishness, don't they?